The following additional particulars, are extracted from a pamphlet published by Mr. John P. Green, who visited various parts of the Union as the authorized agent of the Latter Day Saints, setting forth the facts of the persecution, and soliciting aid and assistance for the sufferers. From the Q,mncy, (Illinois) Argus, March 16, 1839. We give in to-day’s paper the details of the recent bloody tragedy acted in Missouri — the details of a scene of terror and blood unparalleled in the annals of modern, and under the circumstances of the case, in ancient history — a tragedy of so deep and fearful, and absorbing interest, that the very life-blood of the heart is chilled at the simple contemplation. We are prompted to ask ourselves if it be really true, that we are living in an enlightened, a humane and civilized age — in an age and quarter of the world boasting of its progress in every thing good, and great, and honorable, and virtuous, and high-minded — in a country of which, as American citizens, we could be proud — whether we are living under a Constitution and Laws, or have not rather returned to the ruthless times of the stem Jltilla — to the times of the fiery Hun, when the sword and flame ravaged the fair fields of Italy and Europe, and the darkest passions held full revel in all the revolting scenes of unchecked brutality and unbridled desire? We have no language sufficiently strong for the expression of our indignation and shame at the recent transaction in a sister State— and that State Missouri — a State of which we had long been proud, alike for her men and history, but now so fallen that we could wish her star stricken out from the bright constellation of the Union. We say we know of no language sufficiently strong for the expression of our shame and abhorrence of her recent conduct. She has written her own character in letters of blood — and stained it by acts of merciless cruelty and brutality that the waters of ages cannot efface. It will be observed that an organized mob aided by many of the civil and military officers of Missouri, with Gov. Boggs at their head, have been the prominent actors in this business, incited too, it appears, against the Mormons by political hatred, and by the additional motives of plunder and revenge. They have but too well put in execution their threats of extermination and expulsion, and fully wreaked their vengeance on a body of industrious and enterprising men, who had never wronged, nor wished to wrong them, but on the contrary nad ever comported themselves as good and honest citizens, living under the same laws and having the same right with themselves to the sacred immunities of life, liberty, and property. Proceedings in the town of Quincy for the. purpose of affording relief to the people usually denominated “The Latter Day Saints.,> At a meeting of the Democratic Association, held on Saturday evening, the 23rd ultimo, Mr. Lindsay introduced a resolution setting forth, that the people called “The Latter Day- Saints,’* were many of them in a situation requiring the aid of the citizens of Quincy, and recommending that measures be adopted for their relief; which resolution was adopted, and a a committee consisting of eight persons apointed by the chair — of which committee J„ W. Whitney was chairman. The association then adjourned to meet on Wednesday evening then next, after instructing the committee to procure the Congregational meeting-house as a place of meeting, and to invite as many of the people to attend the meeting as should choose to do so, in whose behalf the meeting was to be held, and also all others, citizens of the town. The committee not being able to obtain the meeting- house, procured the court-house for that purpose. Wednesday, Feb. 27th, 1839, 6 o’clock, P. M. The members of the Democratic Association, and the citizens of Quincy generally, assembled in the court-house to take into consideration, the state and condition of the people called “The Latter Day Saints,” and organized the meeting by appointing Gen. Leach, chairman, and James D. Morgan, secretary. 19 Mr. Whitney, from the committee appointed at a former meeting, submitted the following report. The select committee, to whom the subject was referred of inquiring into and reporting the situation of the persons who have recently ar- rived here from Missouri, and whether their circumstances are such, as that they would need the aid of the citizens of Quincy and its vicinity, to be guided by what they might deem the principles of an expanded benevolence, have attended to the duties assigned them, and have concluded on the following REPORT: The first idea that occurred to your committee, was to obtain correctly the facts ©f the case, for without them the committee could come to no conclusions, as to what it might be proper for us to do. Without them, they could form no basis upon which the committee might re- commend to this association what would be proper for us to do, or what measures to adept. — The committee, soon after their appointment, sent invitations to Mr. Rigdon, and several others, to meet the committee and give them a statement of the facts, and to disclose; their situation. Those individuals accordingly met the committee and entered into a free conversation and disclosure of the facts of their situation, and after some time spent therein, the committee concluded to adjourn and report to this meeting, but not without first requesting those individuals to draw up and send us, in writing, a condensed statement of the facts relative to the subjects in charge of your committee, which those individuals engaged to do, and which the committee request may be taken as part of their report. That statement is herewith lettered A. The committee believe that our duties at this time, and on this occasion, are all included within the limits of an expanded benevolence and humanity, and which are guided and directed by that charity which never faileth. From the facts already disclosed, independent of the statement furnished to the committee, we feel it our duty to recommend to this association that they adopt the following resolutions: Resolved, That the strangers recently arrived here from the State of Missouri, known by the name of “The Latter Day Saints,” are en- titled to our sympathy and kindest regard, and that we recommend to the citizens of Quincy to extend to them all the kindness in their power to bestow, as persons who are in affliction. Resolved, That a numerous committee be raised, composed of some individuals in every quarter of the town and its vicinity, whose duty it shall be to explain to our misguided fellow- citizens, if any such there be, who are disposed to excite prejudices and circulate unfounded rumors; and particularly to explain to them, that these people have no design to lower the wages of the laboring class, but to procure something to save them from starving. Resolved, That a standing committee be raised, and be composed of individuals who shall immediately inform Mr. Rigdon and others, as many as they think proper, of their appointment; and who shall be authorized to obtain information from time to time, and should they be of opinion that any individuals, either from destitution or sickness, or if they find them houseless, that they appeal directly and promptly to the citizens of Quincy to furnish them with the means to relieve all such cases? Resolved, That the committee last aforesaid, be instructed to use their utmost endeavours to obtain employment for all these people who are able and willing to labour, and also to afford them all needful, suitable, and proper encouragement. Resolved, That we recommend to all the citizens of Quincy, that in all their intercourse with the strangers, that they use and observe a becoming decorum and delicacy, and be particularly careful not to indulge in any conversation or expressions calculated to wound their feelings, or in any other way to reflect upon those, who, by every law of humanity, are en- titled to our sympathy and commisseration. All which is submitted. J. W. WHITNEY, Ch’n. Quincy, February 27, 1839. (A.) This, gentlemen, is a brief outline of the difficulties that we have labored under, in conse186 AI’PENDIX. quence of the repeated persecutions that have been heaped upon us; and as the Governor’s exterminating order has not been rescinded, we, as a people, were obliged to leave the State, and with it, our lands, corn, wheat, pork &c., that we had provided for ourselves and families, together with our fodder, which we had collected for our cattle, horses, &c. — those of them that we have been able to preserve from the wreck of that desolation which has spread itself over Daviess and Caldwell counties. In consequence of our brethren’s being obliged to leave the State, and as a sympathy and. friendly spirit has been manifested by the citizens of Quincy, numbers of our brethren, glad to obtain an assylum from the hand of persecution, have come to this place. We cannot but express our feelings of gratitude to the inhabitants, of this place for the friendly feelings which have been manifested, and the benevolent hand which has been stretched out to a poor oppressed, injured, and persecuted people; and as you, gentlemen of the Democratic Association, have felt interested ia our welfare, and have desired to be put in possession of a knowledge of our situation, our present wants, and what would be most condu- sive to our present good, together with what led to those difficulties, we thought that those documents* would furnish you with as correct in- formation of our difficulties and what led to them, as any that we are in possession of? If we should say what our present wants are, it would be beyond all calculations, as we have been robbed of our corn, wheat, horses, cattle, cows, hogs, wearing apparel, houses and homes, and indeed, of all that renders life tolerable. — We do not, we cannot expect to be placed in the situation that we once were, nor are we capable, of ourselves, of supplying the many wants of those of our poor brethren, who are daily crowding here and looking to us for re- lief, in consequence of our property, as well as theirs being in the hands of a ruthless and desolating mob? It is impossible to give an exact account of the widows, and those that are entirely destiAlluding to a memorial and other documents. tute, as there are so many coming here daily; but, from inquiry, the probable amount will be something near twenty, besides numbers of others who are able-bodied men, both able and willing to work, to obtain a subsistence, yet owing to their peculiar situation, are destitute of means to supply the immediate wants that the necessities of their families call for. We would not propose, gentlemen, what you shall do, but after making these statements, shall leave it to your own judgment and generosity. As to what we think would be the best means to promote our permanent good, we think that to give us employment, rent us farms, and allow us the protection and privileges of other citizens, would raise us from a state of dependance, liberate us from the iron grasp of poverty, put us in possession of a competency, and deliver us from the ruinous effects of persecution, despotism and tyranny. Written in behalf of a committee of “The Latter Day Saints.” E. HIGBEE, Pres’t. J. P. Greene, Clerk. To the Quincy Democratic Association. Mr. Rigdon then made a statement of the wrongs received by the Mormons, from a portion of the people of Missouri, and of their present suffering condition. On motion of Mr. Busbnell, the report and resolutions were laid upon the table, till to-morrow evening. On motion of Mr. Bushnell, the meeting adjourned to meet at this place on to-morrow evening, at seven o’clock. Thursday Evening, Feb. 28. Met pursuant to adjournment. The meeting was called to order by the chairman. On motion of Mr. Morris, a committee of three was appointed to take up a collection; Messrs. J. T. Holmes, Whitney, and Morris, were appointed. The committee subsequently reported that $48 25 cents had been collected. On motion, the amount was paid over to the committee on behalf of the Mormons. On motion of Mr. Holmes, a committee of three, consisting of S. Holmes, Bushnell and Morris, were appointed to draw up subscription papers and circulate them among the citizens, for the purpose of receiving contributions in clothing and provisions. On motion, six were added to that committee. On motion of J. T. Holmes, J. D. Morgan was appointed a committee to wait upon the Quincy Greys, for the purpose of receiving subscriptions. Mr. Morgan subsequently reported that $20 had been subscribed by that company. The following resolutions were then offered by Mr. T. J. Holmes. Resolved, That we regard the rights of con- science as natural and inalienable, and the most sacred guaranteed by the constitution of our free government. Resolved, That we regard the acts of all mobs as flagrant violations of law, and those who compose them, individually responsible, both to the laws of God or man for every depradation committed upon the property, rights, or life of any citizen. Resolved, That the inhabitants upon the Western Frontier of the State of Missouri in their late persecutions of the class of people denominated Mormons, have violated the sacred rights of conscience, and every law of justice and humanity. Resolved, That the Gov. of Missouri in refusing protection to this class of people when pressed upon by an heartless mob, and turning upon them a band of unprincipled Militia, with orders encouraging their extermination, has brought a lasting disgrace upon the State over which he presides. The resolutions were supported in a spirited manner by Messrs. Holmes, Morris and Whitney. On motion, the resolutions were adopted. On motion, the meeting then adjourned. SAM’L LEACH, Chairman. J. D. Morgan, Sec’y. The following is a short history of my travels to the State of Missouri, and of a bloody tragedy acted at Haun’s Mills, or Shoal Creek, October 30th, 1838. On the 6th of July last, I started with my family from Kirtland, Ohio, for the State of Missouri, the county of Caldwell, in the upper part of the State, being the place of my destination. On the 13th of October, I crossed the Mississippi at Louisiana, at which place I heard vague reports of the disturbances in the upper country, but nothing that could be relied upon. I continued my course westward till I crossed Grand River, at a place called Compton’s Ferry; at which place I heard, for the first time, that if I proceeded any farther on my journey, I would be in danger of being stopped by a body of armed men. 1 was not willing, however, while treading my native soil, and breathing republican air, to abandon my object; which was to locate myself and family in a fine healthy country, where we could enjoy the society of our friends and connexions. Consequently, f prosecuted my journey till I came to Whitney’s mills, situated on Shoal Creek, in the eastern part of Caldwell county. After crossing the creek and going about three miles, we met a party of the mob, about forty in number, armed with rifles, and mounted on horses, who informed us that we could go no farther west — threatening us with instant death if we proceeded any farther, i asked them the reason of this prohibition, to which they replied that we were Mormons, and that every one who adhered to our religious faith would have to leave the State in ten days or renounce their religion. Accordingly they drove us back to the mills above mentioned. Here we tarried three days; and, on Friday, the 26th, we re-crossed the creek and following up its banks, we succeeded in eluding the mob for the time being, and gained the residence of a friend in Myers’ settlement. On Sunday, 28th Oct. we arrived about 12 o’clock at Haun’s mills, where we found a number of our friends collected together, who were holding a council, and deliberating upon the best course for them to pursue, to defend themselves against the mob, who were collecting in the neighborhood, under the command of Col. Jennings, of Livingston, and threatening them with house-burning and killing. The decision of the council was, that oar friends there should place them- selves in attitude of self-defence. Accordingly, about 28 of our men armed themselves, and were in constant readiness for an attack of any small body of men that might come upon them. The same evening, for some reason, best known to themselves, the mob sent one of their number to enter into a treaty with our friends which was accepted, on the condition of mutual forbearance on both sides, and that each party, as far as their influence extended, should exert themselves to prevent any farther hostilities upon either party. At this time, however, there was another mob collecting on Grand River, at William Mann’s, who was threatening us, consequently we remained under arms on Monday, the 29th, which passed away without molestation from any quarter. On Tuesday, the 30th, that bloody tragedy was acted; the scenes of which I never shall forget. More than three-fourths of the day had passed in tranquility, as smiling as the preceding one. I think there was no individual of our company that was apprised of the sudden and awful fate that hung over our heads like an overwhelming torrent, which was to change the prospects, the feelings, and circumstances of about 30 families. The banks of Shoal-creek, on either side, teemed with children, sporting and playing, while their mothers were engaged in domestic employments, and their fathers employed in guarding the mills, and other property, while others were engaged in gathering in their crops for their winter con- sumption. The weather was very pleasant — the sun shone clear — all was tranquil; and no one expressed any apprehension of the awful crisis that was near us — even at our doors. It was about 4 o’clock, while silting in my cabin with my babe in my arms, and my wife standing by my side, the door being open, I cast my eyes on the opposite bank of Shoal- creek, and saw a large company of armed men, on horses, directing their course towards the mills with all possible speed. As they advanced through the scattering trees that stood on the edge of the prairie, they seemed to form themselves into a three-square position, forming a van-guard in front. At this moment, David Evans, seeing the superiority of their numbers, (there being 240 of them, according to their own account,) swung his hat, and cried for peace. This not being heeded, they continued to advance, and their leader, Mr. Comsfock, fired a gun, which was followed by a solemn pause of ten or twelve seconds, when all at once, they discharged about 100 rifles, aiming at a blacksmith shop into which our friends fled for safety; and charging up to the shop, the cracks of which between the logs were sufficiently large to enable them to aim directly at the bodies of those who had there fled for refuge from the fire of their murderers. There were several families tented in the rear of the shop, whose lives were exposed, and amidst a shower of bullets fled to the woods in different directions. After standing and gazing on this bloody scene for a (ew minutes, and finding myself in the uttermost danger, the bullets having reached the house where I was living, I committed my family to the protection of Heaven, and leaving the house on the opposite side, I took <a path which led up the hill, following in the trail of three of my brethren that had fled from the shop. While ascending the hill we were discovered by the mob, who immediately fired at us, and continued so to do till we reached the summit. In descending the hill I secreted myself m a thicket of bushes, where I lay till eight o’clock in the evening, at which time I heard a female voice calling my name in an undertone, telling me that the mob had gone, and there was jio danger. I immediately left the thicket, and went to the house of Benjamin Lewis, where I found my family, (who had fled there,) in safety, and two of my friends mortally wounded, one of whom died before morning. Here we passed the painful night in deep and awful reflections on the scenes of the preceding evening. After day-light appeared, some four or five men, with myself, who had escaped with our lives from the horrid massacre, repaired as soon as possible to the mills, to learn the condition of our friends, whose fate we had but too truly anticipated. When we arrived at the house of Mr. Haun, we found Mr. Merrick’s body lying in rear of the house; Mr. M’Bride’s in front, literally mangled from head to foot. We were informed by Miss [Rebecca Judd, who was an eye wit- ness, that he was shot with his own gun, after he had given it up, and then cut to pieces with a corn cutter, by a Mr. Rogers of Daviess county, who keeps a ferry on Grand River, and who has since repeatedly boasted of this act of savage barbarity. Mr. York’s body we found in the house, and after viewing these corpses, we immediately went to the blacksmith shop, where we found nine of our friends, eight of whom were already dead; the other, Mr. Cox, of Indiana, struggling in the agonies of death, who expired. We immediately prepared and carried them to the place of interment. This last office of kindness due to the relicts of de- parted friends, was not attended with the customary ceremonies, nor decency, for we were in jeopardy, every moment expecting to be fired upon by the mob, who, we supposed, were lying in ambush, waiting for the first opportunity to despatch the remaining few who were providentially preserved from the slaughter of the preceding day. However, we accomplished, without molestation, this painful task. The place of burying was a vault in the ground, formerly intended for a well, into which we threw the bodies of our friends promiscuously. Among those slain I will mention Sardius Smith, son of Warren Smith, about 9 years old, who, through fear, had crawled under the bel- lows in the shop, where he remained till the massacre was over, when he was discovered by a Mr. Glaze, of Carroll county, who presented his rifle near the boy’s head and literally blow- ed off the upper part of it. Mr. Stanley of Car- roll told me afterwards that Glaze boasted of this fiendlike murder and heroic deed all over the country. The number killed and mortally wounded in this wanton slaughter was 18 or 19, whose names, as far as I recollect, were as follows: Thomas M’Bride, Levi Merrick, Elias Benner, Josiah Fuller, Benjamin Lewis, Alexander Campbell, Warren Smith, Sardius Smith, Geo. Richards, Mr. Napier, Mr. Harmer, Mr. Cox, Mr. Abbott, Mr. York, Wm. Merrick, (a boy 8- or 9 years old,) and three or four others, whose names I do not recollect, as they were strangers to me. Among the wounded who recovered were Isaac Laney, Nathan K. Knight, Mr. Yokum, two brothers by the name of Myers, TarUon Lewis, Mr. Haun, and several others. Miss Mary Stedwell while fleeing was shot through the hand, and, fainting, fell over a log, into which they shot upwards of twenty balls. To finish their work of destruction this band of murderers, composed of men from Daviess, Livingston, Ray, Carrol], and Chariton counties, led by some of the principal men of that section of the upper country, (among whom I am informed were Mr. Ashby, from Chariton, member of the State Legislature, Col. Jennings of Livingston county, Thomas O. Bryon, Clerk of Livingston co., Mr. Whitney, Dr. Randall, and many others,) proceeded to rob the houses, wagons and tents, of bedding and clothing, drove off horses and wagons, leaving widows and orphans destitute of the necessaries of life, and even stripped the clothing from the bodies of the slain! According to their own account, they fired seven rounds in this awful butchery, making up- wards of sixteen hundred shots at a little company of men, about thirty in number. I hereby certify the above to be a true statement of facts according to the best of my know- ledge. JOSEPH YOUNG. State of Illinois, ) County of Adams. ) I hereby certify that Joseph Young this day came before me and made oath in due form of law that the statements contained in the foregoing sheets are true according to the best of his knowledge and belief. In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the Circuit Court at Quincy, this fourth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine. C. M. WOODS, Clerk Circuit Court, Adams Co. 111. P. S. A younger brother of the boy here killed aged eight, was shot through the hip. The little lellow himself states, that seeing his father and brother both killed he thought they would shoot him again if he stirred, and so feigned himself dead, and lay perfectly still, till he heard his mother call him after dark. The following address, was delivered at Far West, by Maj. Gen. Clark, to the Mormons, after they had surrendered their arms, and them- selves prisoners: “Gentlemen — You whose names are not attached to this list of names, will now have the privilege of going to your fields to obtain corn for your families, wood, &c. Those that are now taken, will go from thence to prison — be tried, and receive the due demerit of their crimes — but you are now at liberty, all but such as charges may be hereafter preferred against. It now devolves upon you to fulfil the treaty that you have entered into, the leading items of which I now lay before you. The first of these you have already complied with, which is, that you deliver up your leading men to be tried according to law. Second, that you deliver up your arms — this has been attended to. The third is, that you sign over your properties to defray the expenses of the war — this you have also done. Another thing yet remains for you to comply with, that is that you leave the State forthwith, and whatever your feelings concerning this affair — whatever your innocence, it is nothing to me. Gen. Lucas, who is equal in authority with me, has made this treaty with you. I am determined to see it executed. The orders of the Governor to me, were, that you should be exterminated, and not allowed to continue iu the State, and had your leaders not been given up and the treaty complied with be- fore this, you and your families would have been destroyed, and your houses in ashes. There is a discretionary power vested in my hands which I shall try to exercise for a season. I did not say that you should go now, but you must not think of staying here another season, or of putting in crops; for the moment you do, the citizens will be upon you. I am determined to see the Governor’s Message fulfilled, but shall not come upon you immediately— do not think that I shall act as I have done any more — but if I have to come again, because the treaty which you have made here shall be broken, you need not expect any mercy, but extermination— for I am determined that the Governor’s order shall be executed. As for your leaders, do not once think — do not imagine for a moment— do not let it enter your mind, that they will be delivered, or that you will see their faces again, for their fate is fixed, their die is cast — their doom is sealed. I am sorry, gentlemen, to see so great a number of apparently intelligent men found in the situation that you are; and oh! that I could invoke the spirit of the unknown God to rest upon you, and deliver you from that awful chain of superstition, and liberate you from those fetters of fanaticism with which you are bound. I would advise you to scatter abroad and never again organize with Bishops, Presidents, &c, lest you excite the jealousies of the people, and subject yourselves to the same calamities that have now come upon you. You have always been the agressors — you have brought upon yourselves these difficulties by being disaffected, and not being subject to rule — and my advice is, that you become as other citizens, lest by a recurrence of these events you bring upon your- selves irretrievable ruin. Copy of Joseph Smith, JrJs Petition. To the Honorable Judge Tompkins, or either of the Judges of the Supreme Court for the State of Missouri. Your petitioners, beg leave respectfully, to represent to your honor, that Joseph Smith, jr., is now unlawfully confined and restrained of his liberty, in Liberty jail, Clay co. (Mo.) that he has been restrained of his liberty near five months. Your petitioners claim that the whole transaction which has been the cause of his confinement, is unlawful from the first to the last. He was taken from his home by a fraud being practised upon him by a man by the name of George M. Hinkle, and one or two others, thereby, your petitioners respectfully show, that he was forced contrary to his wishes, and without knowing the cause, into the camp which was commanded by General Lucas, of Jackson county, and from thence to Ray county, sleeping on the ground and suffering many insults and injuries, and deprivations, which were calculated in their nature to break down the spirits and constitution of the most robust and hardy of mankind. He was put in chains immediately on his being landed at Richmond, and there underwent a long and tedious exparte examination; not only was it exparte, but your petitioners solemnly declare that it was a mock examination; that there was not the least shadow of honor, or justice, or law, administered toward him, but sheer prejudice, and the spirit of persecution and ma- lice, and prepossession against him on account of his religion; that the whole examination was an inquisitory examination. Your petitioners show that the said Joseph Smith, junior, was deprived of the privilege of being examined be- fore the court, as the law directs; that the wit- nesses on the part of the State were taken by force of arms, threatened with extermination or immediate death, and were brought without subpoena or warrant, under this awful and glaring anticipation of being exterminated if they did not swear something against him to please the mob, or his persecutors; and those witnesses “were compelled to swear at the muzzle of the gun, and that some of them have acknowledged since, which your petitioners do testify, and are able to prove, that they did swear false, and that they did it in order to save their lives. And your petitioners testify that all the testimony that had any tendency or bearing of criminality against said Joseph Smith, junior, is false. We are personally acquainted with the circumstances, and being with him most of the time, and being present at the times spoken of by them, therefore we know that their testimony was false, and if he could have had a fair and impartial and lawful examination before that court, and could have been allowed the privilege of introducing his witnesses, he could have disproved every thing that was against him; but the court suffered them to be intimidated — some of them in the presence of the court, and they were driven also, and hunted, and some of them entirely driven out of the State. And thus he was not able to have a fair trial; that the spirit of the court was tyrannical and overbearing, and the whole transaction of his treatment during the examination was calculated to convince your petitioners that it was a religious persecution, prescribing him in the liberty ofconscience, which is guaranteed to him by the Constitution of the United States, and the State of Missouri; that a long catalogue of garbled testimony was permitted by the court, purporting to be the religious sentiment of the said Joseph Smith, junior, which testimony was false, and your petitioners know that it was false; because the wit- nesses testified that those sentiments were promulgated on certain days, and in the presence of large congregations; and your petitioners can prove by those congregations, that the said Joseph Smith, junior, did, not promulge such ridiculous and absurd sentiments for his religion, as was testified of, and admitted before the Honorable Austin A. King; and, at the same time, those things had no bearing on the case, that the said Joseph Smith, junior, was pretended to be charged with; and, after the examination, the said prisoner was committed to the jail for treason against the State of Missouri; whereas, the said Joseph Smith, junior, did not levy war against the State of Missouri, neither did he commit any covert acts; neither did he aid or abet an enemy against the State of Missouri during the time that he is charged with having done so; and, farther, your petitioners have yet to learn that the State has an enemy; neither is the proof evident, nor the presumption great, in its most indignant form, upon the face of the testimony on the part of the State, exparte as it is in its nature, that the said prisoner has committed the slightest degree of treason, or any other act of transgression against the laws of the State of Missouri; and yet said prisoner has been committed to Liberty jail, Clay county, (Mo., for treason. He has continually offered bail to any amount that could be required notwithstanding your petitioners alledge that he ought to have been acquitted. Your petitioners also allege that the commitment was an illegal commitment, for the law requires that a copy of the testimony should be put in the hands of the jailor, which was not done. Your petitioners alledge that the prisoner has been denied the privilege of the law in a writ of Habeas Corpus, by the judges of this county. Whether they have prejudged the case of the prisoner, or whether they are not willing to administer law and justice to the prisoner, or that they are intimidated by the high office of Judge King, who only acted in the case of the prisoners as a commit- ting magistrate, a conservator of the peace, or by the threats of a lawless mob, your petitioners are not able to say but is a fact that they do not come forward boldly and administer the law to the relief of the prisoner; and, farther, your petitioners alledge that immediately after the prisoner was taken, his family was frightened and driven out of their house, and that, too, by the witnesses on the part of the State, and plundered of their goods; that the prisoner was robbed of a very fine horse, saddle, and bridle, and other property of considerable amount; that they, (the witnesses,) in connection with the mob, have finally succeeded, by vile threatening and foul abuse, in driving the family of the prisoner out of the State, with little or no means, and without a protector, and their very subsistence depends on the liberty of the prisoner. And your petitioners alledge that he is not guilty of any crime whereby he should be restrain- of his liberty, from a personal knowledge, having been with him, and being personally acquainted with the whole of the difficulties be- tween the Mormons and their persecutors; and, that he has never acted, at any time, only in his own defence, and that, too, on his own ground, property, and possessions; that the prisoner has never commanded any military company, nor held any military authority, neither any other office, real or pretended, in the State of Missouri, except that of a religious teacher: that he never has bore arms in the military rank, and in all such cases has acted as a private character, and as an individual. How, then, your petitioners would ask, can it be possible, that the prisoner has commited treason. The prisoner has had nothing to do in Daviess county, only on his own business as an individual. The testimony of Doctor Avard concerning a council held at James Sloan’s, was false. Your petitioners do solemnly de- clare, that there was no such council; that your petitioners were with the prisoner, and there was no such vote nor conversation as Doctor Avard swore to; that Doctor Avard also swore false concerning a constitution, as he said, was introduced among the Danites; that the prisoner had nothing to do with burning in Daviess county; that the prisoner made public proclamation against such things; that the prisoner did oppose Doctor Avard and George M. Hinkle against vile measures with the mob, but was threatened by them if he did not let them alone; that the prisoner did not have any thing to do with what is called Bogart’s battle, for he knew nothing of it until it was over — that he was at home, in the bosom of his own family during the time of that whole transaction; and, in fine, your petitioners al- ege that he is held in confinement without cause, and under an unlawful and tyrannical oppression, and that his health, and constitution, and life, depends on being liberated from his confinement. Your petitioners aver that they can disprove every item of testimony that has any tendency of criminality against the prisoner, for they know it themselves, and can bring many others also to prove the same. Therefore, your petitioners pray your honor to grant to him the State’s writ of habeas corpus, directed to the jailor of Clay county, (Mo.,) commanding him forthwith to bring before you the body of the prisoner, so that his case may be heard before your honor, and the situation of the prisoner be considered and adjusted according to law and justice, as it shall be presented before your honor, and as in duty bound, your petitioners will ever pray. And, farther, your petitioners testify that the said Joseph Smith, junior, did make a public proclamation in Far west, in favor of the militia of the State of Missouri, and of its laws, and, also, of the constitution of the United States; that he has ever been a warm friend to his country, and did use all his influence for peace; that he is a peaceable and quiet citizen, and is not worthy of death, of stripes, bonds, or imprisonment. The above mentioned speech was delivered on the day before the surrender of Far West. Alanson Ripley, Heber C. Kimball, William Huntington, Joseph B. Noble, Joseph Smith, jun., State of Missouri, > County of Clay, ) This day personally appeared before me, Abraham Shafer, a Justice of the Peace within and for the aforesaid county — Alanson Ripley, Heber C. Kimball, Wm. Huntington, Joseph B. Noble, and Joseph Smith, jun, who being duly sworn, doth depose and say that the matters and things set forth in the foregoing petition, upon their own knowledge, are true in substance and in fact, arid so far as set forth upon the information of others, they believe to be true. Alanson Ripley, Heber C. Kimball, William Huntington, Joseph B. Noble, Joseph Smith, jun, Sworn and subscribed to before me, this 15th day of March, 1839, ABRAHAM SHAFER, J. P. We, the undersigned, being many of us personally acquainted with the said Joseph Smiths jun., and the circumstances connected with his imprisonment, do concur in the petition and testimony of the above named individuals, as most of the transactions therein mentioned we know from personal knowledge, to be correctly set forth, and from information of others, believe the remainder to be true. Amasa Lyman, H. G. Sherwood, James Newbery, Cyrus Daniels, Erastus Snow, Elias Smith.
